.TH TLSPOOL_SOCKET 3 "November 2015" "ARPA2.net" "Library Calls"
.SH NAME
tlspool_socket \- Setup the TLS Pool to use with a given socket path.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <tlspool/commands.h>
.br
.B #include <tlspool/starttls.h>
.sp
.B int tlspool_socket (char *\fIpath\fB);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR tlspool_socket ()
returns a file descriptor for the TLS Pool.  During the first call, the
.I path
argument is used as a path to the UNIX domain socket to use; during later
calls, the argument is ignored but the returned file descriptor is instead
the same one as before.  A NULL value for the argument is replaced with
the value of the
.BR socket_name configuration
file as returned by
.IR tlspool_configvar()
or, if that fails, the statically compiled value in
.BR TLSPOOL_DEFAULT_SOCKET_PATH .
.PP
All of the
.IR tlspool_XXX ()
functions that do not have a socket path argument
call this function internally, to setup a shared access point
to the TLS Pool.  In addition, a "master thread" is created to retrieve
and redistribute return values.  This mechanism facilitates multiple
simultaneous commands being sent to the TLS Pool by independent threads.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The function returns a file descriptor >= 0 on success.
If an error occurs, the function returns -1 and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.\"TODO: .SH ERRORS
.\"TODO: Various.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Rick van Rein of OpenFortress.nl, for the ARPA2.net project.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
For any discussion, including about bugs, please use the mailing list
found on
.IR http://lists.arpa2.org/mailman/listinfo/tls-pool .
.PP
Please read the software distribution's
.IR README ", " INSTALL " and " TODO " files"
for information about the
.I tlspool
implementation status.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \(co 2015 Rick van Rein, ARPA2.net.
.PP
ARPA2 is funded from InternetWide.org, which in turns receives donations
from various funding sources with an interest in a private and secure
Internet that gives users control over their online presence.  This particular
project has been sponsored in part by NCSC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tlspool "(8)."
.IR tlspool_configvar "(3)"
.PP
The configuration file option
.I socket_name
influences the path at which the TLS Pool is available; this is not
read by the client library, and when it differs from the default path in
.BR TLSPOOL_DEFAULT_SOCKET_PATH ,
this function is used to inform the client library once, before calling
any of the other client functions.
.PP
The TLS Pool API is documented in the include file
.IR <tlspool/commands.h> " and " <tlspool/starttls.h>
for C, and the
.I tlspool.py
module for Python.
.PP
Online resources may be found on the project home page,
.IR http://tlspool.arpa2.net .
