.TH TLSPOOL_LOCALID_SERVICE 3 "November 2015" "ARPA2.net" "Library Calls"
.SH NAME
tlspool_localid_service \- Offer localid selection service to the TLS Pool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <tlspool/commands.h>
.br
.B #include <tlspool/starttls.h>
.sp
.B int tlspool_localid_service (char *\fIpath\fB,
.RS
.B uint32_t \fIregflags\fB, int \fIresponsetimeout\fB,
.br
.B char * (*\fIcb\fB) (lidentry_t *\fIentry\fB, void *\fIdata\fB),
.br
.B void *\fIdata\fB);
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR tlspool_localid_service ()
registers with the TLS Pool for callbacks that select the local identity
to present to remote peers.  This is used when the TLS Pool needs to
reveal an identity, in the interest of privacy and control over a
user's online presence.
The intention of
.BR tlspool_localid_service ()
is to permit front-end programs to present a popup with a menu for the
selection of a local identity from a menu, and to potentially add a new
local identity to be used.
.PP
The TLS Pool accepts at most one active localid selection frontend at any time,
and will even protect a localid selection frontend from being replaced while it
is in the process of choosing a local identity.  The limit to this protection is
requested in a number of seconds in
.IR responsetimeout .
.PP
The callback function is called with the opaque
.I data
value supplied to
.B tlspool_localid_service
and a pointer to a
.B lidentry_t
structure that holds a number of fields to guide the selection process:
.TP
.I flags
Holds flags
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_xxx
described below.
.TP
.I maxlevels
Indicates the number of generalisation steps that the response may make
from the concrete remote identity.
.TP
.I timeout
Specifies the time value (as returned from the
.IR time ()
function) at which the selection process times out, and may be replaced
by a new registration by another TLS Pool client.
.TP
.I localid
May be set to a suggested local identity when
.I cb
is called;
and should be set to the selected local identity when it returns.
To indicate that no selection was made, this field is set to an empty string.
.TP
.I remoteid
May be set to the current remote identity when
.I cb
is called;
and should be set to the (possibly generalised) remote identity when it
returns, although this may not take more than
.B maxlevels
steps up.
.PP
A single local identity selection callback may be preceded by zero or more
database entries that might match, and that can be used to fill a menu.
These are passed in invocations to
.I cb
before the actual inquiry call to
.IR cb .
The various calls to
.I cb
return NULL when they succeed, or an error description (and a
corresponding  error number in
.IR errno )
to be relayed back to the TLS Pool and (after it bounces from there) to the
calling program.
.PP
The
.I regflags
set the behaviour while searching the database
.B disclose.db
for entries
that map a remote identity to a list of local identities.  It indicates which
values may be passed without interaction with
.IR cb ;
by default, as long as a
.IR cb
is registered through
.BR tlspool_lidentry_service (),
all attempts
to determine a local identity pass through 
.IR cb ;
the
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIP_xxx
flags
indicate which entries may be implicitly skipped when they all apply.
.TP
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIP_USER
indicates that part of the skip condition is that
any username is not removed; variants with just a domain name are also
considered skippable under this flag;
.TP
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIP_DOMAIN_xxx
indicates whether the domain may be changed;
use
.BR PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIP_SAME and/or PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIPEUP
to indicate 0 and 1 levels up from the concrete
domain name; the
.BR _SUB " variation combines " PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIPME " and " PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIPEUP .
.TP
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIP_NOTROOT
indicates that the entry must not be the root
domain entry; whether or not the username is removed is not of influence
on the meaning of this flag.
.TP
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIP_DBENTRY
indicates that the entry must be in the database;
it is implied by all the above, but has meaning when used on its own, as it
permits skipping anything that is stored, without further restricting flags.
.PP
These flags are used as
.I regflags when calling
.BR tlspool_localid_service ();
they are also
returned in callbacks, where they refer to the remote identity selector.
For example,
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIP_USER
indicates that the username part was skipped, and
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_SKIP_DOMAIN_ONEUP
indicates that the domain name goes one up.
.TP
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_WANT_DBENTRY
is used as part of the
.I regflags
to cause the invocation of
.I cb
for database entries at
the most concrete level above the considered remoteid.
These can be used to build up a menu, for instance in a data structure
pointed to by the
.IR data " parameter of " cb .
.PP
Although the skip selection could be made in the extension, it is less
efficient that way; the interaction with the extension is forced into a
sequence, and concurrent contenders may therefore need to wait for the
extension while it is interacting with the user.  So, skipping user
interaction when it is not needed is advantageous.  When skipping, the
.B disclose.db
is used as a source, as if there is no active
.IR tlspool_localid_service ()
call active.  Where the database holds multiple values for a given key,
the first will be used.
.PP
Any invocations of
.I cb
to deliver a database entry precede the actual inquiry for a local identity.
These invocations are only made when
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_WANT_DBENTRY
is included in
.I regflags
and the number of entries reported are 0 or more, basically variable.
Any such database entry callbacks precede the normal callback and have:
.TP 3
 -
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBENTRY
set
.TP 3
 -
.I maxlevels
set to the number of levels up for this entry (0 for concrete)
.TP 3
 -
.I remoteid
set to the remoteid entry found in
.B disclose.db
.TP 3
 -
.I localid
set to an entry found in the database
.PP
The return to these database entries from
.I cb
should not be ERROR but is otherwise ignored.  TODO: return error/success?
.PP
The final/normal call to
.I cb
asks for a local identity, and it is different:
.TP 3
 -
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBENTRY
is not set
.TP 3
 -
.I maxlevels
set to the number of permissible levels up (from 0 for concrete)
.TP 3
 -
.I remoteid
set to the concrete remote identity considered
.TP 3
 -
.I localid
set to the application-suggested local identity, or empty to signal that it is
undefined
.PP
The entry returned value from the callback function
.I cb
should have:
.TP 3
 -
.I flags
can hold
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_xxx
flags suitable for callback processing
.I remoteid
is the given concrete, or no more than
.I maxlevels
iterations up
.TP 3
 -
.I localid
is the concrete identity to disclose, unrelated to the suggested
.PP
In addition to the above interactions, the callback function
.I cb
can introduce flags to indicate what it wants to have done.  These flags
may relay an end user's requirements.
.PP
.BR PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBAPPEND " and " PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBINSERT
indicate that the provided
information should be added to the database, respectively at the end or
beginning of the disclose.db list of local identities for the given remote
identity.  When the entry is already available, the posision is not changed
by default, but that will be done when
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBREORDER
is set.
.PP
Changes to the database are part of a database transaction that is rolled
back when the TLS handshake fails.  This means that providing an identity
that somehow fails to work is not going to be remembered for the next time.
A simple restart of the TLS handshake therefore suffices to restart the
user interaction and find an alternative.  Note that it is assumed that the
application that uses the TLS Pool will somehow report back on the failure,
and the user should therefore not be surprised to be confronted with a
question that he though had been stored.
.PP
Note that these flags lead to database activity; optimal efficiency
requires that they are only set on
.I cb
responses
that actually write to the database -- because they return either:
.LI -
a
.I remoteid
less than
.I maxlevels
steps up with
.BR PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBINSERT " or " PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBAPPEND ;
.LI -
a
.I localid
with
.BR PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBINSERT " or " PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBAPPEND
if it is not yet setup in the database;
.LI -
a
.I localid
whose position must be updated under
.BR PIOF_LIDENTRY_DBREORDER .
.PP
The
.IR cb -returned
flag
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_NEW
indicates in a response to a callback that the selected
local identity should be available soon, but may not have come through yet.
It instructs the TLS Pool to await its arrival before proceeding.
.PP
This flag is useful to end a callback (and thus free up the resource of the
forced user-interaction sequence) while identities are being created in
complex network infrastructures that may involve key generation, publication
in identity showcases like DNS or LDAP, and whatever else is needed to have
identities embedded in an infrastructure.
.PP
TODO:
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_NEW
is unimplemented behaviour; the flag is merely allocated.
The result of using this is currently immediate return of
.BR DB_NOTFOUND .
.PP
The
.IR cb -returned
flag
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_ONTHEFLY
indicates in a response to callback that the selected
local identity should be setup as an on-the-fly identity.  This type of
identity is only available locally, and uses a configured credential to
vouch for the on-the-fly generated identity.  The manner in which this
is done depends on the kind of credential to provide.
.PP
These on-the-fly identities will disappear when the TLS Pool restarts, and
possibly sooner.  They are to be considered usable for one connection only,
although temporary caching may be used to improve efficiency.  In general,
do not rely on the same certificate to stay available.  Also, do not expect
public visibility of this identity in LDAP, DNS, or other identity showcase.
.PP
Note that it should be assumed that these identities require special setup
in the remote node; if it is a full-blown TLS Pool, it will not appreciate
the locality of the identity, and demand more infrastructural confirmation
in identity showcases.  One example of its use however, is towards lame
and old-fashioned remote services and towards highly structured local users,
such as off-the-shelve browsers that require a HTTPS proxy.
.PP
TODO:
The flag
.B PIOF_LIDENTRY_ONTHEFLY
is unimplemented behaviour; the flag is merely allocated.
For now, the response is the same as in lieu of configuration of a
root key and cert, namely to return
.BR DB_NOTFOUND .
.PP
The
.I path
parameter to
.BR tlspool_localid_service ()
points to the socket path for the TLS Pool; this function does not share
in the general resources setup through
.IR tlspool_socket (3)
because it is usually employed in isolated commands.  For this reason,
the function opens its own client socket, and will close it before
ending, even when the thread running it is victimised to
.IR pthread_cancel (3).
The
.I path
may be set to NULL, in which case the
.B TLSPOOL_DEFAULT_SOCKET_PATH
is used to connect to the TLS Pool.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
As long as the function is successful, it does not return, but continue
to keep the TLS Pool locked into its localid entry loop.  At some point however,
the routine may return with an error code in
.I errno
and the return value -1.
.\"TODO: .SH ERRORS
.\"TODO: Various.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Rick van Rein of OpenFortress.nl, for the ARPA2.net project.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
For any discussion, including about bugs, please use the mailing list
found on
.IR http://lists.arpa2.org/mailman/listinfo/tls-pool .
.PP
Please read the software distribution's
.IR README ", " INSTALL " and " TODO " files"
for information about the
.I tlspool
implementation status.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \(co 2015 Rick van Rein, ARPA2.net.
.PP
ARPA2 is funded from InternetWide.org, which in turns receives donations
from various funding sources with an interest in a private and secure
Internet that gives users control over their online presence.  This particular
project has been sponsored in part by NCSC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tlspool "(8), " pthread_cancel "(3), " tlspool_pin_service "(3)"
.PP
The configuration file option
.I socket_name
influences the path at which the TLS Pool is available; this is not
read by the client library, and when it differs from the default path in
.BR TLSPOOL_DEFAULT_SOCKET_PATH ,
this function is used to inform the client library once, before calling
any of the other client functions.
.PP
The configuration file options
.IR dbenv_dir ", " db_localid " and " db_disclose
together determine where the databases are located that play a role in the
local identity service, and store any changes requested over it.
.PP
The configuration file options
.IR tls_onthefly_signcert " and " tls_onthefly_signkey
are used to setup on-the-fly creation of identities.
.PP
The TLS Pool API is documented in the include file
.IR <tlspool/commands.h> " and " <tlspool/starttls.h>
for C, and the
.I tlspool.py
module for Python.
.PP
Online resources may be found on the project home page,
.IR http://tlspool.arpa2.net .
