.TH TLSPOOL_ASYNC_CLOSE 3 "March 2019" "ARPA2.net" "Library Calls"
.SH NAME
tlspool_async_close \- Close the TLS Pool link and stop pending requests.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdbool.h>
.sp
.B #include <tlspool/async.h>
.sp
.B bool tlspool_async_close (
.RS
.B struct tlspool_async_pool *\fIpool\fB,
.br
.B bool \fIclose_socket\fB);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR tlspool_async_close ()
disconnects from the TLS Pool at the given
.I pool
as opened by
.BR tlspool_async_open ().
By setting the
.I close_socket
flag, the underlying socket can be closed (which only makes
sense when we are not responding to a socket close-down).
.PP
Any requests that are pending on the
.I pool
connection are cancelled and will return an error to
allow properly processing the various implications of
the disconnect.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS AND EVENT-DRIVEN USE"
The call to
.BR tlspool_async_close ()
is not itself asynchronous, let alone event-driven, but it is
the point that ends many independent requests that may have
been fired since
.BR tlspool_async_open ()
was called.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The function returns
.B true
on success or, in case of failure, it returns
.B false
and sets
.I errno
appropriately.  Note that there are local extensions founded
in the
.IR com_err (3)
system.  Error codes specific to the TLS Pool are in
.I <tlspool/errortable.h>
but other systems may also link in with the
.IR com_err (3)
error system.
.SH ERRORS
None known to date.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Rick van Rein of OpenFortress.nl, for the ARPA2.net project.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
For any discussion, including about bugs, please use the mailing list
found on
.IR http://lists.arpa2.org/mailman/listinfo/tls-pool .
.PP
Please read the software distribution's
.IR README ", " INSTALL " and " TODO " files"
for information about the
.I tlspool-daemon
implementation status.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \(co 2015-2019 Rick van Rein, ARPA2.net.
.PP
ARPA2 is funded from InternetWide.org, which in turns receives donations
from various funding sources with an interest in a private and secure
Internet that gives users control over their online presence.  This particular
project has been sponsored in part by NCSC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tlspool_async_open "(3),"
.IR tlspool_async_request "(3),"
.IR tlspool-daemon "(8)."
.PP
The configuration file option
.I socket_name
influences the path at which the TLS Pool is available; this is not
read by the client library, and when it differs from the default path in
.BR TLSPOOL_DEFAULT_SOCKET_PATH ,
this function is used to inform the client library once, before calling
any of the other client functions.
.PP
The TLS Pool API is documented in the include file
.IR <tlspool/commands.h> " and " <tlspool/starttls.h>
for C, and the
.I tlspool.py
module for Python.
.PP
Online resources may be found on the project home page,
.IR http://tlspool.arpa2.net .
