.TH TLSPOOL 8 "November 2015" "ARPA2.net" "System Management Commands"
.SH NAME
tlspool \- A daemon program that centralises TLS knowledge.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlspool
[\fI-k\fR] [\fI-c configfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B tlspool
program normally runs as a local daemon that listens to a UNIX domain
socket where TLS can be requested for existing file descriptors.  It acts
as a central point for controlling TLS activities, including privileges
and certificate/key handling.  It implements TLS for TCP, and DTLS for
UDP and SCTP.
.PP
The TLS Pool functions as a TLS-application overlay over an industry-standard
PKCS #11 API through which key material can be looked up and used.  It will
select a local certificate and key based on a name provided by an application
program, and handle all authentication and, if so configured, authorization
as part of the TLS connection setup.
.PP
The TLS Pool will negotiate certificates in either X.509 or OpenPGP format,
with a preference for the latter.  It will perform validation by looking
up information online, rather than relying on a signature that some
authority once made to state that it (hopefully) performed a similar
validation just before creating the signature.  The complexity of verifying
such authorities and establishing if their certification signatures still
hold have grown to such a level of complexity that one might just as well
perform the validation live, at the time the information is useful.  Note
that this approach will only work for online processes.
.PP
The mechanisms supported to establish authenticity of a remote peer are
LDAP and DANE.  LDAP is available for domain and user certificates in
X.509 or OpenPGP format, DANE is only available for domain certificates
in X.509 format because it has not been defined for other applications.
LDAP connections themselves should be based on a DANE-protected server
certificate.
.PP
The remote information retrieved by the TLS Pool can slow down the
connection setup, and for that reason caching may be configured.  The
caching mechanism used is memcache, with a configurable timeout for
all data cached.  It is possible to bypass the cache for the most
sensitive operations.
.PP
TLS in itself is not overly private; the exchange of certificates
can be passively observed.  For this reason, the TLS Pool can implement
a more expensive and therefore optional two-phase approach, where a first
connection is setup under an anonymous Diffie-Hellman key exchange, and
immediately a secure re-negotiation is performed to exchange the actual
certificates.  This is possible if both client and server are willing to
accept an initial anonymous connection.  Whether this is safe, especially
when the remote party may be running any TLS stack, depends on the
actual service being run.  The TLS Pool is made aware of this information,
which helps to deal with this properly.
.TP
\fB\-c configfile\fR
points the
.B tlspool
program to a configuration file.  The format of the file is not documented
here, instead the documentation is written as part of the example
configuration file, and it is suggested to not remove it there.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR
kills any previously started
.B tlspool
program running at the UNIX domain socket for the TLS Pool.  An exchange
will be initiated to stop the previous
.B tlspool
daemon and then the current one will continue to be setup.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Rick van Rein of OpenFortress.nl, for the ARPA2.net project.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
For any discussion, including about bugs, please use the mailing list
found on
.IR http://lists.arpa2.org/mailman/listinfo/tls-pool .
.PP
Please read the software distribution's
.IR README ", " INSTALL " and " TODO " files"
for information about the
.B tlspool
implementation status.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \(co 2015 Rick van Rein, ARPA2.net.
.PP
ARPA2 is funded from InternetWide.org, which in turns receives donations
from various funding sources with an interest in a private and secure
Internet that gives users control over their online presence.  This particular
project has been sponsored in part by NCSC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tlstunnel "(8), " tlspool_socket "(3), " tlspool_starttls "(3), "
.IR tlspool_control_detach "(3), " tlspool_control_reattach "(3), "
.IR tlspool_prng "(3), " tlspool_ping "(3), "
.IR tlspool_localid_service "(3), " tlspool_pin_service "(3)."
.PP
The configuration file has a lot of useful documentation inline, including:
.TP 3
 -
.IR socket_user ", " socket_group ", " socket_mode ", " socket_name ", " daemon_user " and " daemon_group
to setup access to the TLS Pool;
.TP 3
 -
.IR log_level ", " log_filter ", " log_stderr
to setup logging levels and facilities;
.TP 3
 -
.IR dbenv_dir ", " db_localid " and " db_disclose
to describe where the local databases are stored for the dynamically
configurable behaviour of the TLS Pool.
.PP
The documentation in the TLS Pool software package adds more detail and
refinement to this manual page.
.PP
The TLS Pool API is documented in the include file
.IR <tlspool/commands.h> " and " <tlspool/starttls.h>
for C, and the
.I tlspool.py
module for Python.
.PP
Online resources may be found on the project home page,
.IR http://tlspool.arpa2.net .
