.TH TLSPOOL_CONTROL_REATTACH 3 "November 2015" "ARPA2.net" "Library Calls"
.SH NAME
tlspool_control_reattach \- Detach a TLS connection from the current process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdint.h>
.br
.B #include <tlspool/commands.h>
.br
.B #include <tlspool/starttls.h>
.sp
.B int tlspool_control_reattach (uint8_t *\fIctlkey\fB);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR tlspool_control_reattach ()
attaches a TLS session that is currently not attached to any TLS Pool client
to the calling TLS Pool client.  This
means that control connections (including ones from other processes
and other programs) can no longer reattach the same TLS session, until they
have used
.IR tlspool_control_detach ()
and made the
.I ctlkey
value known to the intended recipient process.
.PP
The value of
.I ctlkey
is used to identify a TLS session from among the set of sessions that are not
currently controlled by any TLS Pool client.  The
.I ctlkey
value is a random byte string constructed during the
.IR tlspool_starttls (3)
call.  The value may be passed from the place where this call initiated the
TLS session to another process.  If the flag
.B PIOF_STARTTLS_FORK
is set during this operation, then the TLS session is detached immediately,
without this flag it is attached to the current TLS Pool client.
.PP
When the current TLS Pool client closes its connection, for instance
because the last process dies that held the connection to the TLS Pool open,
then all attached TLS sessions will be closed by the TLS Pool, but
TLS sessions in detached state will continue to run.
.PP
The
.IR tlspool_control_detach ()
call can be used to detach a TLS session from the current TLS Pool client.
This also uses the
.IR ctlkey ,
this time to identify the TLS session from among the set of sessions that
are controlled by the current TLS Pool client.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The function returns 0 on success.
If an error occurs, the function returns -1 and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.\"TODO: .SH ERRORS
.\"TODO: Various.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Rick van Rein of OpenFortress.nl, for the ARPA2.net project.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
For any discussion, including about bugs, please use the mailing list
found on
.IR http://lists.arpa2.org/mailman/listinfo/tls-pool .
.PP
Please read the software distribution's
.IR README ", " INSTALL " and " TODO " files"
for information about the
.I tlspool
implementation status.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \(co 2015 Rick van Rein, ARPA2.net.
.PP
ARPA2 is funded from InternetWide.org, which in turns receives donations
from various funding sources with an interest in a private and secure
Internet that gives users control over their online presence.  This particular
project has been sponsored in part by NCSC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tlspool_control_detach "(3), " tlspool "(8)"
.PP
The TLS Pool API is documented in the include file
.IR <tlspool/commands.h> " and " <tlspool/starttls.h>
for C, and the
.I tlspool.py
module for Python.
.PP
Online resources may be found on the project home page,
.IR http://tlspool.arpa2.net .
