.TH TLSTUNNEL 8 "November 2015" "ARPA2.net" "System Management Commands"
.SH NAME
tlstunnel \- Forward TLS/DTLS as TCP/UDP/SCTP, and vice versa.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlstunnel
.IR MODE " " OPTIONS " [" -- "] " CHATARGS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B tlstunnel
command wraps TLS around connections that are otherwise plaintext.
This can even be used for protocols that do STARTTLS in the
course of their protocol interactions, due to a simple
.IR chat (8)
scripting facility.
.PP
The TLS facilities are drawn from a
.IR tlspool (8)
daemon, which is contacted over a UNIX domain socket.  It therefore
inherits the architectural benefits of the TLS Pool, including the
ability of central control, strong protection of cryptographic
credentials, and even the ability to monitor and control which local
identities are revealed to which remote peers.
.PP
The tunnel can be built up using either TLS or DTLS, the latter of which
is the datagram variety of common, stream-oriented TLS.  When relaying
a TCP connection, TLS is the only available option; when relaying a
UDP connection, DTLS is the only available option; when relaying an
SCTP connection, both varieties are available but DTLS is generally
preferred for efficiency reasons.
.PP
Future versions of
.B tlstunnel
are expected to support symmetric behaviour, but the present version
must run in either client or server mode.  Used as a client, the
service listens for plaintext connections made to address \fIinaddr\fR and
port \fIinport\fR, wraps them in TLS as a client and forwards the connection
to address \fIfwaddr\fR and port \fIfwport\fR.  When used as a server, the same
is done, however the wrapping of TLS is changed to unwrapping of TLS.
.PP
Addresses can take the form of a UNIX domain socket path, or host:port where
the host is either a DNS name or an IPv6 address.  For the last form,
backward compatibility to IPv4 is possible by prefixing :: to an IPv4 address.
It is possible to use this backward compatibility with either or both or none
of \fIinaddr\fR and \fIfwaddr\fR.
.PP
The end points authenticate, and are authorized, as configured in the
system-wide TLS Pool policy settings.  These settings ensure a
consistent default behaviour for all TLS Pool connections.  As an example,
these policies tend to include requirements to certificates.
.PP
The \fIMODE\fR defines whether \fItlstunnel\fR runs as a client or server:
.TP
.BR -c ", " --client
Run
.B tlstunnel
as a client, meaning that it is connected to by
a plaintext connection and forwarded as a TLS-wrapped variety.

Client authentication and authorization are implemented as specified
in the TLS Pool configuration.  This includes choice of certificates
and settings about their visibility.
.TP
.BR -s ", " --server
Run
.B tlstunnel
as a server, meaning that it is connected to by
a TLS-wrapped connection and forwarded as a plaintext variety.

Client authentication and authorization are implemented as specified
in the TLS Pool configuration.  This includes choice of certificates
and settings about their visibility.
.PP
The \fIOPTIONS\fR detail further information, some of which is
actually not optional at all.
.TP
.BR -f ", " --fork
When the
.B tlstunnel
stops, the TLS connections should continue to run.
.TP
.BR -t ", " --tcp ", " --tcp-tls
Listen to, and forward as, TCP connection.  The secure wrapping
is implemented through stream-oriented TLS.

This is also the default option, selected when none of
.BR --tcp-tls ", " --udp-dtls ", " --sctp-tls " or " --sctp-dtls
has been supplied.
.TP
.BR -u ", " --udp ", " --udp-dtls
THIS FEATURE IS NOT IMPLEMENTED.  The semantics cannot be clearly
defined, because UDP has no notion of a connection, while TLS does
need it to keep state.  Rather than implementing guesses here and
load it with configuration options such as timeouts, it is advised
to implement DTLS directly in the UDP application.
.TP
.BR "-x \fIstream\fB" ", " "--sctp-stream-number \fIstream\fB"
When SCTP is used, forward the given stream number.  This option may
in the future be REDESIGNED to permit multiple streams, and the default
is unsettled but might be all.  There are a few alternative approaches.

Combine with one of
.BR --sctp-dtls " or " --sctp-tls
to specify the desired form of transport layer security.
.TP
.B --sctp-tunneled
Specifies that SCTP should be tunneled over UDP, using the
port number 9899 as specified in RFC 6951.  The default is to not use
a tunnel, as can be specified explicitly with
.BR --sctp-not-tunneled .
.TP
.B --sctp-not-tunneled
Specifies that SCTP should not be tunneled over UDP.  This is the
default behaviour when \fI--sctp-tunneled\fR is not specified.
.TP
.BR "-l \fIlocaladdr\fB" ", " "--local-addr \fIlocaladdr\fB"
The local address for the tunnel.
.TP
.BR "-r \fIremoteaddr\fB" ", " "--remote-addr \fIremoteaddr\fB"
The remote address for the tunnel.
.TP
.BR "-L \fIlid\fB" ", " "--local-id \fIlid\fB"
Set the local identity.  This should be of the form of a domain
name, or user@domainname.  This paramater is required.  When a
localid service program has registered with
.IR tlspool (8)
then the local identity may be passed through for filtering, depending
on the option used when registering.
.TP
.BR "-R \fIrid\fB" ", " "--remote-id \fIrid\fB"
Constrain the remote identity.  This should be of the form of a domain
name, or user@domainname.  This parameter is optional in server mode,
but is (usually) needed to setup client mode.
.TP
.BR "-s \fIsvcname\fB" ", " "--service \fIsvcname\fB"
Specify the service name that will be sent to
.IR tlspool (8)
during initiation of the TLS protection.  This helps to decide several
protocol-specifics, including whether it is safe to start with an
Anonymising Precursor.  The service name should follow the IANA spelling,
which is also used in
.IR /etc/services .
.TP
.BR "-S \fIpath\fB" ", " "--tlspool-socket-path \fIpath\fB"
Override the built-in default path for the socket pool.  This can be
used to address a specific instance of the TLS Pool, for instance one
that is run under a personal account, accessing a personally held
PKCS #11 token.
.BR "-C command" ", "--chat-command command"
Specifies an alternative command in the style of
.IR chat (8)
to replace the builtin version, which was forked from
.IR pppd (8).
Note that an external command will normally be less efficient than the
builtin variety.
.PP
The remaining commandline arguments form the \fICHATARGS\fR, which are passed
on to the builtin or external
.IR chat (8)
facility.  This can be used to perform communication in plaintext over
the soon-to-be TLS connection; it can be used to negotiate options over
a textual protocol up to the agreement to switch to TLS.  This is
precisely what
.IR chat (8)
was design for; except that the next-stage protocol was PPP and not TLS.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PP
The TLS Pool can handle various options when connecting to a remote site.
These options have not yet been implemented as commandline switches, so
this level of refinement cannot be added when using the 
.B tlstunnel
program.
.PP
The TLS Pool usually negotiates local and remote identities as part of
the authentication and authorization procedures.  These procedures do not
interface optimally with the TLS Tunnel, because there is no place to
leave this information.  What has been implemented is the mandatory
-l option that sets the local identifier to use, and an optional -r option
to constrain the remote identity.
.PP
Note that the TLS Tunnel does not implement a PIN entry interface; this
is a function that is separately coordinated with the TLS Pool, so it can
bring up a dialog in a trusted environment, making it easier to secure than
any per-command PIN entry dialog.
.PP
Where TLS and even DTLS have a notion of connection state, necessary for the
management of things like session keys, there is no concept of a connection
for UDP transmission.  For this reason, the UDP variant of this tool has not
been implemented; it would involve close-to-NAT practices that can easily
lead to confusion.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Rick van Rein of OpenFortress.nl, for the ARPA2.net project.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
For any discussion, including about bugs, please use the TLS Pool
mailing list found on
.IR http://lists.arpa2.org/mailman/listinfo/tls-pool .
.PP
Please read the software distribution's
.IR README ", " INSTALL " and " TODO " files"
for information about the
.IR tlspool (8)
implementation status.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \(co 2015 Rick van Rein, ARPA2.net.
.PP
ARPA2 is funded from InternetWide.org, which in turns receives donations
from various funding sources with an interest in a private and secure
Internet that gives users control over their online presence.  This particular
project has been sponsored in part by NCSC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tlspool "(8), " tlspool_starttls "(3), " chat "(8), " pppd (8).
.PP
Online resources may be found on the project home page,
.IR http://tlspool.arpa2.net .
